# Mario_game


-To run the game, just hit the Gradle build and Gradle run command in terminal.


List features (i.e., Level Transition, Score and Time, and Save and Load) I have implemented in my extension
- LevelTransition, done by tweaking the JSON configuration file
- Score and Time, done by implementing the Observer pattern
- Save and Load, done by implementing the Prototype pattern and the Memento pattern



List the names of the design patterns I have used in my extension and provide the corresponding file names regarding these patterns
- Prototype pattern, Cloneable.java, Entity.java, LevelImpl.java
- Memento pattern, Caretaker.java, GameMemento.java, GameEngineImpl.java
- Observer pattern, GameEngineImpl.java, LevelImpl.java, Observer.java, CurrentScoreObserver.java, FinalScoreObserver.java




which key on the keyboard should be pressed to demo your load and save.
"S" key to save, "Q" key to load 



*I have changed the flag position on the first level from the original code, so that its easier to test level transition. Rather than having to go through the whole first level, which is time consuming. 







*** AIM ***

The aim of the Stickman game is to make it to the right top side of the game space and touch the finish flag.
Picking up a mushroom will enable you to shoot bullets.
If you fall off the bottom of the screen or you are touched by an enemy slime, then you 
will die and the level will start again.

If you make it to the end, a "You Win" banner will come down from the top. At this
point, you can press ESC to restart the level. --- Play as much as you want!!! ---






*** Controls ***

Left: Left Arrow
Right: Right Arrow
Jump: Up arrow
		NOTE: You can only jump a maximum time of two jumps.
			After this the Stickman will fall back to the 
			ground, when you can now jump again.

Shoot: [Left Arrow | Right Arrow] + Spacebar.
		NOTE: Shoot will not work with just the spacebar or before a mushroom is gathered.





*** Configuration File ***

The configuration file can be found at "src/main/resources/config.json".
The levels are generated by data specified within the configuration file. The fils is loaded by the
App class and fed into the GameEngineImp class as a JSONOject.
All level data is caputured in the "levels" section of the configuration file.
There is currently only one level built, however one can follow the syntax to create new Entities or even
a whole new level.
However, if you wish to load your own level, it must be loaded as "1" as the program does not currently
transistion between levels.

An example of the config file can be seen below.
The one attribute that is handy to play with is the "small" attribute of the hero. Setting this
to false will give a hero that is 50% bigger.


**** EXAMPLE Configuration file *****
Note: This example will not generate a playable game, it is only a small collection from the actual file.
Comments to the right of the JSON denoted by '****' give brief explanations of the JSON.

{
    "general" : {
        "application" : "Stickman",
        "subject" : "SOFT2201",
        "purpose" : "Assignment_2",
        "boilerplatecodeauthor" : "TheUniversityOfSydney",  		**** General information
        "applicationcreator" : {
        }
    },

    "game" : {
        "levelcount" : 1,			                **** Would be useful when there is more than one level
        "screensize" : [640, 400]		            **** To know then there are no more levels to load.
    },

    "levels" : {
        "1" : {
            "floor" : {
                "dirt" : [
                    {"x_axis": true, "from" : 0.0, "to" : 750.0, "qty" : 16, "pos" : 350.0},
                    {"x_axis" : false, "from" : 200.0, "to" : 300.0, "qty" : 2, "pos" : 700.0},
                    {"x_axis": true, "from" : 950.0, "to" : 3450.0, "qty" : 63, "pos" : 350.0}			**** The floor is made up of tiles.
                ],												                                        **** x_axis is true for when the pos refes to an x cordinate
                "top" : [											                                    **** and build a row of the tiles.
                    {"x_axis" : true, "from" : 0.0, "to" : 800.0, "qty" : 10, "pos" : 300.0},			**** x_axis is false for when a column of tiles needs to be
                    {"x_axis" : true, "from" : 700.0, "to" : 750.0, "qty" : 1, "pos" : 150.0}			**** built.
                ],
                "left" : [
                    {"x_axis" : false, "from" : 200.0, "to" : 300.0, "qty" : 2, "pos" : 650.0},
                    {"x_axis" : false, "from" : 200.0, "to" : 450.0, "qty" : 2, "pos" : 900.0}
                ],
                "right" : [
                    {"x_axis" : false, "from" : 200.0, "to" : 450.0, "qty" : 2, "pos" : 750.0},
                    {"x_axis" : false, "from" : 200.0, "to" : 300.0, "qty" : 2, "pos" : 1000.0}
                ],
                "left_cnr" : [
                    {"x_axis" : true, "from" : 650.0, "to" : 700.0, "qty" : 1, "pos" : 150.0},
                    {"x_axis" : true, "from" : 900.0, "to" : 950.0, "qty" : 1, "pos" : 150.0}
                ],
                "right_cnr" : [
                    {"x_axis" : true, "from" : 750.0, "to" : 800.0, "qty" : 1, "pos" : 150.0},
                    {"x_axis" : true, "from" : 1000.0, "to" : 1050.0, "qty" : 1, "pos" : 150.0}
                ]
            },
            "platforms" : [
                {"x_from" : 200.0, "x_to" : 300.0, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : 200.0},
                {"x_from" : 400.0, "x_to" : 650.0, "qty" : 4, "ypos" : 225.0},
                {"x_from" : 1050.0, "x_to" : 1150.0, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : 225.0},		**** Platforms are built by knowing where you want one or more
                {"x_from" : 1150.0, "x_to" : 1350.0, "qty" : 3, "ypos" : 100.0},		**** platforms to start and finish. The width is variable
                {"x_from" : 1350.0, "x_to" : 1500.0, "qty" : 2, "ypos" : 25.0},			**** and is determined by the equal division of the length
                {"x_from" : 1550.0, "x_to" : 1600.0, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : -25.0},		**** by the amount of platforms (qty). All platforms are 
                										                                **** horizontal and so the 'pos' attribute is always for the
												                                        **** y-axis.
                {"x_from" : 651.0, "x_to" : 651.1, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : 149.5},
                {"x_from" : 799.0, "x_to" : 799.1, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : 149.5},
                {"x_from" : 901.0, "x_to" : 901.1, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : 149.5},
                {"x_from" : 1049.0, "x_to" : 1049.1, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : 149.5},		**** These platforms are micro platforms.
                {"x_from" : 1151.0, "x_to" : 1151.2, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : 98.0},			**** The micro platforms create small unoticable objects
                {"x_from" : 1349.0, "x_to" : 1349.1, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : 99.5},			**** that the Slimes use to know when to change direction.
                {"x_from" : 1251.0, "x_to" : 1251.1, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : -100.5},		**** A Slime will chnage its direction when it hits a stationary
                {"x_from" : 1449.0, "x_to" : 1449.1, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : -100.5},		**** object. So micro platfors are used to create their boundary.
                {"x_from" : 1401.0, "x_to" : 1401.1, "qty" : 1, "ypos" : -250.5}
               
            ],
            "trees" : [
                {"x" : 25.0, "y" : 103.0, "w" : 128.0, "h" : 197.0}
            ],
            "flags" : [
                {"x" : 3165.0, "y" : -285.0, "w" : 127.0, "h" : 200.0}				    **** Other object being Trees, Flags, Mushrooms, Slimes and the
            ],											**** Hero are created here.
            "mushrooms" : [
                {"x" : 515.0, "y" : 265.0, "w" : 31.2, "h" : 41.4},
                {"x" : 2625.0, "y" : 65.0, "w" : 31.2, "h" : 41.4}
            ],
            "slimes" : [
                {"x" : 250.0, "y" : 240.0},
                {"x" : 450.0, "y" : 240.0},
                {"x" : 600.0, "y" : 240.0}
            ],
            "hero" : {"x" :  250.0, "y" :  50.0, "small" : true}				        **** The Hero can be 'true' or 'false' for the "small" attribute.
        }											                                    **** Changing this to false will generate a hero 50% bigger.
    }
}

